User Email Machine   


Buckets
New users
Current users
At-risk WAUs
At risk MAUs
Dead Users 
Reactivated Users
Resurrected users


Flow Rates
New User Retention Rate
Current User Retention Rate
Current users retention rate (CURR): The chance a user comes back this week if they came to the product each of the past two weeks 
New users retention rate (NURR): The chance a user comes back this week if they were new to the product last week 
Reactivated user retention rates (RURR): The chance a user comes back this week if they reactivated last week
Conveniently, the top four buckets of the model add up to DAU. Those buckets are defined as: 
* New users: first day of engagement ever in the app
* Current users: engaged today and at least one other time in the prior 6 days
* Reactivated users: first day of engagement after being away for 7-29 days
* Resurrected users: first day of engagement after being away for 30 days or longer
The remaining three buckets represent users who were not active today and have different degrees of inactivity.
* At-risk WAU: inactive today, but active in at least one of the prior 6 days 
   * At-risk WAU + DAU = WAU 
* At-risk MAU: inactive in the past seven days, but active in at least one of the prior 23 days 
   * At-risk MAU + WAU = MAU
* Dormant users: inactive in the past 31 days or longer 
   * MAU + dormant users =  Total user base
The fact that DAU, WAU, and MAU can easily be calculated from these buckets made it easy to model them over time. This is a key feature of the model. Additionally, by manipulating the rates represented by the arrows, we can model the compounding and cumulative impact of moving these rates over time; in other words, the rates are the levers product teams can pull to grow DAU.






Hubspot


HubSpot’s free accounts allow you to send up to 2,000 marketing emails per calendar month.


Limitations: no custom HTML. Can use built-in templates


Brevo


Brevo’s free account lets you send up to 300 emails per day 


Limitation: up to 2000 contacts. 




OmniSend


Send 500 monthly emails to 250 contacts per month 


Mailgun


Send 100 emails per day 


MailerLite


Send 12,000 emails per month to up to 500 subscribers 


Adam’s proposal


Welcome Email to All New Users - sent through Hubspot. This will work indefinitely until we hit a New User Monthly Signup Rate > 2,000 new users per month


One-time NPS Email to All new users - sent through Brevo. This will work indefinitely until we hit a New User Daily Signup Rate > 300 users per day


One-time PMF Email to All New Weekly Active Users - sent through Mailgun. This will work indefinitely until we have Net New WAU Per Week > 100 users per week


Upgrade Thank You Email sent through OmniSend to all users who Upgrade with Stripe. This will work indefinitely until we hit 250 total paid subscribers ($20/month) ($5000 MRR). 


Selective Nurturing Emails sent through Mailerlite to select user cohorts who are most at-risk of churn (e.g. at-risk MAUs, at-risk WAUs). This will work indefinitely until we hit 500 dead users per month on average. If we see users not opening MailerLite emails and not logging in through Supabase, we will eventually categorize them as “Dead”, remove them from Supabase and from Mailerlite after 12 months of Absence